
Verify the type of ATM machine, if it is completely touch-enabled, with both keypad buttons only or both.

Verify that the user is presented with options when the card is inserted correctly.

Check that no option to continue and enter credentials is displayed to the user when the card is inserted incorrectly.

Verify that the touch of the ATM screen is smooth and operational.

Verify that the user is presented with the option to choose a language for further operations.

Check that the user is asked to enter pin number before displaying any card/bank account detail.

Verify that there is a limited number of attempts up to which the user is allowed to enter pin code.

Verify that if a total number of incorrect pin attempts gets surpassed then the user is not allowed to continue further. And operations like temporary blocking of the card, etc get initiated.

Check that the pin is displayed in masked form when entered.

Verify that the user is presented with different account type options like- saving, current, etc.

Verify that the user is allowed to get account details like available balance.

Check that the correct amount of money gets withdrawn as entered by the user for cash withdrawal.

Verify that the user is only allowed to enter the amount in multiples of denominations as per the specifications.

Verify that the user is prompted to enter the amount again in case the amount entered is less than the minimum amount configured.

Check that the user cannot withdraw more amount than the total available balance and a proper message should be displayed.

Verify that the user is provided the option to get the transaction details in printed form.

Verify that the user’s session timeout is maintained.

Check that the user is not allowed to exceed one transaction limit amount.

Verify that the user is not allowed to exceed the one-day transaction limit amount.

Verify that the user is allowed to do only one transaction per pin request.

Check that in case the ATM machine runs out of money, a proper message is displayed to the user.

Verify that the applicable fee gets deducted along with the withdrawn amount in case the user exceeds the limit of the number of free transactions in a month.

Verify that the applicable fee gets deducted along with the withdrawn amount in case the user uses the card of a bank other than that of an ATM.

Check that the user is not allowed to proceed with the expired ATM card and a proper error message gets displayed.

Verify that in case of sudden electricity loss before withdrawing cash, the transaction is marked as null and the amount is not withdrawn from the user’s account.