
--SOURCE : https://artoftesting.com/youtube

Verify that user can upload single video or allowed format and size successfuly.
Verify that while uploading user should select the video license and type of video along with its attributes like- name, artsist name, company etc.
Verify the maximum size of video that is permitted to upload and check that any attempt to upload video of size greater than the allowed value results in an error message.
Verify if there is any minimum size of video that is permitted to upload and any attempt to upload file size less than specified results in error message.
Verify all the video formats that are allowed to upload – .mp4, .3gp, .avi etc and check that uploading file formats other that alllowed results in error message.
Verify that uploading blank file should result in error message.
Verify that user can upload multiple videos or allowed format and sie successfuly.
Verify that upladers get notification of comments posted on the videos uploaded by them.
Verify that user can view likes, dislikes and comments for their videos.
Verify that user can reply to the comments posted in their videos.
Test scenarios for Video Viewing Functionality
Verify that video page can be opened by direct link to a video.
Verify that on cliking the video play icon over the video, the video should play.
Verify all the video player controls- play, pause, volume, mute etc.
Verify that user can select the allowed video quality for playing the video.
Verify that once the video is complete, user can replay the video using ‘replay’ icon.
Verify that video should be searchable by name, displaying the most relevant video on the top in search results.
Verify that other attributes of video like artist name, description should also be searchable.
Verify that user should get auto suggestions while searching for videos in the youtube search bar.
Verify that search results should display information like video name, thumbnail, video length, view counts etc.
Verify that clicking the video thumbnails in the search results should lead to video page.
Verify that video filtering and sorting option while searching for video like – sort be view count, like, upload date etc.
Verify that user can view ‘view count’, ‘comments’, ‘like’ and ‘dislikes’ for a video.
Verify that with each view the ‘view count’ increases by one.
Verify that user can like or dislike a video and the corresponding count should increase by one.
Verify that user can comment in the comments section.
Verify that user should be presented with related videos in the sidebar section.
Verify that the related videos are related to the current video or is based on the past viewing history of user.
Verify that clicking rleated video thumbnail should open the video.
Verify that for age restricted video, user is asked to login to youtube account.
Verify that logged-in user should see there history as well as recommended videos in the home page.
Verify that every video viewed goes to history for logged in user..
Verify that user can view or delete history items.